Hiator and discovery motor cortex

(lesions and stim)
 
Reveal difference across mammals in terms of execution overt behaviour

Why is this?
- Anatomical suibstrate (CS/Pyrmaidla0



Physiology suggests...is active for all movement but onlyu seems beded for some? why?


Is this everything? Is this satisfying?

- There is a loto fo toehr anatomy to explain...for coretx to influence movement...
- Robots ahve anothe rprobelsm...

( Physiology suppoorts this that...postuyre correction drive activity, and hummans with stropoked are bad...

Tihis is why we have  motor cortex!

So...going back to the history...tere are anectodotal "clues"...

let's test this.

- - - - 

(Intro paragraph) (ARK)

[Box: Motor cortex definition..."motor cortical areas"]

[History]
How did we discover motor cortex? (GL)
 - Stim and Lesion standard story (Fritsch, Hitzig...Jackson)
 - GoltzFerrier
 - Already a dog primate dillema! (despite remembered as a Ferrier victory)...why does the role seem different in different mammals?
(other lesions...includiong rats)


[Physiology]
Do we get some clues from Physiology? Not only does htephysiology not make things cleaer...it does not recapitualte the species differences in lesion effects...clues from anatomy?
Physiology! (motor cortical activity seems to follow most movements of the animal, but that activity is not necessary to generate those movements) (GL)
 - Why do Cats walk fine after the region with lost of activity relating to walking is removed?


[Anatomical substrate for species differences]
Anatomical substrate: (GL)
  - This discrepenacy was noted by others and a lot of work tried to explain.
  - Pyramidial tract differences...rats vs primates (ratio of dorso ventral projections, targeting motor neurons, etc...)
(This seems to fit with the degree of overt impairment observed in lower to hogher mammals)...in fact, you only need to leasion to CS to get these effects 

[Pyramidal tract role in "dexterous" movements]
 - emphasizes a role in "fine" movments...which implies....
Rats nand Whishaw: (ARK + GL)
What this implies is that the role for Motor Cortex in lower mammals is very smalls ubset of fine, skilled, dexterous precision movements?---


This is where the field is...

 - - -
(The currently assigned role for MC is not satisifying because it explains a subset of the anatomy and a subset of the motor probelm's facing animals...and, an eays at that.)
Is this everything? Is this satisfying?
Motor cortex has many more ways to move the body than the CS!
- There is alot of other anatomy to explain...many other routes for coretx to influence movement...
(efference copy)
(action selection)
(branching, BS, reticular)

Motor cortex as the output of cortex...

There a more movements that would benefit from hgih-level control onther than factitination of digits!
- Ue robots as an example (interestingly...this is what is hard...not precsion)


(slipping on the stairs while holding a beer vs hot coffee) this is the hard problem...motor cortex seems wonderfully situated

[Quotes]
- Evidence that we are on the right tract:
      - Anectdotes!


Segue: We need an essay to test robust responses...
 - - - -



phd-thesis
The main body of the thesis in LaTeX

Build environment (Windows)

Based on the instructions at: http://tex.stackexchange.com/questions/43984/using-notepad-with-miktex-on-windows

Install Basic MiKTeX 2.9
Install SumatraPDF
Copy the batch file "miktex_to_latex.bat" to the [Notepad++ installation Path]
Install NppExec plugin
Open a TeX file on Notepad++, run with F6 and enter the following lines on the popup dialog: NPP_SAVE "" "$(CURRENT_DIRECTORY)" "$(NAME_PART)" "$(NAME_PART).pdf"
Save script as PDFLaTeX
Assign Notepad++ plugin command
For SVG conversion:

Install Inkscape
Add Inkscape to PATH

